README.md, before:

# Android Wear DataApi for Cordova

This plugin enables data synchronization between an Android Phone and an Android wear device via the [Android Wear DataApi](https://developers.google.com/android/reference/com/google/android/gms/wearable/DataApi). With this API, you can:

* Put data into the Data Layer
* Query data from the Data Layer
* Delete data from the Data Layer
* Register for Data Layer change event callbacks

*Note: Because Cordova does not run on Android Wear as of 3/12/2017, the Android Wear application must be written natively (or with Xamarin).*

## Platform

* Android

## DataApi Essentials

Each data item is identified by a URI, accessible with getUri(), that indicates the item's creator and path. Fully specified URIs follow the following format:

    wear://<node_id>/<path>

There is a lower-level API which works with sending raw bytes which is not implemented. The implementation of this plugin translates Javascript objects into [`DataMap`](https://developers.google.com/android/reference/com/google/android/gms/wearable/DataMap) objects in Android for ease of use.

Read more at the documentation here: [https://developer.android.com/training/wearables/data-layer/data-items.html](https://developer.android.com/training/wearables/data-layer/data-items.html)

# Installing

### Cordova

    $ cordova plugin add cordova-androidwear-dataapi --variable DATAAPI_PATHPREFIX="/"

The `DATAAPI_PATHPREFIX` is optional and defaults to "/". Keep in mind that if you do not add a filter prefix that differentiates the phone from the Wear device, all data events put to the Android Wear network by your application will be captured by `addListener`, including data items put by the Cordova phone app.

# API

## Methods

- [WearDataApi.putDataItem](#weardataapiputdataitem)
- [WearDataApi.getDataItems](#weardataapigetdataitems)
- [WearDataApi.deleteDataItems](#weardataapideletedataitems)
- [WearDataApi.addListener](#weardataapiaddlistener)

## WearDataApi.putDataItem

    WearDataApi.putDataItem(path, data, success, failure);

### Description

Adds a DataItem to the Android Wear network. The updated item is synchronized across all devices.

*Note: calling this method multiple times with the same data will cause change events only once.*

### Parameters

- __path__: The path of the data item
- __data__: A javascript object. The object properties that can be translated from the object are:
    - Strings
    - Numbers
    - Boolean values
    - Nested javascript objects (following the above rules)
    - Arrays:
        - containing **only integers**, or
        - containing **only strings**, or
        - containing **only javascript objects** (following the above rules)
- __success__: Success callback function that is invoked when the put is complete.
- __failure__: Error callback function, invoked when error occurs. [optional]

### Example

```javascript
var data = { "a": 123, "b": { "c": ["d"] } }
WearDataApi.putDataItem("/item_path/item123", data, function() {
    // success callback
},
function(err) {
    // error callback
})
```

## WearDataApi.getDataItems

```javascript
getDataItems(uri, filterType, success, error)
```

### Description

Retrieves all data items matching the provided URI, from the Android Wear network.

### Parameters

- __uri__: The URI must contain a path. If `uri` is fully specified, at most one data item will be returned. If `uri` contains a wildcard host, multiple data items may be returned, since different nodes may create data items with the same path. See DataApi for details of the URI format.
- __filterType__: Either `WearDataItem.FILTER_LITERAL` (0) or `WearDataApi.FILTER_PREFIX` (1). The filterType parameter changes the interpretation of `uri`. For example, if `uri` represents a path prefix, all items matching that prefix will be returned.
- __success__: Success callback function that is invoked when the get is complete, with the data returned.
- __failure__: Error callback function, invoked when error occurs. [optional]

### Example

```javascript
WearDataApi.getDataItems("wear://*/item_path", WearDataApi.FILTER_PREFIX, function(data) {
    console.log(data);
})
// outputs:
[
    { 
        "Uri": "wear://abcd1234/item_path/item123",
        "Data": { "a": 123, "b": { "c": ["d"] } }
    }  
]
```

## WearDataApi.deleteDataItems

```javascript
deleteDataItems(uri, filterType, success, error)
```

### Description

Removes all specified data items from the Android Wear network.

### Parameters

- __uri__: If uri is fully specified, this method will delete at most one data item. If uri contains a wildcard host, multiple data items may be deleted, since different nodes may create data items with the same path
- __filterType__: Either `WearDataItem.FILTER_LITERAL` (0) or `WearDataApi.FILTER_PREFIX` (1). The filterType parameter changes the interpretation of `uri`. For example, if `uri` represents a path prefix, all items matching that prefix will be returned.
- __success__: Success callback function that is invoked when the delete is complete, with the number of items deleted.
- __failure__: Error callback function, invoked when error occurs. [optional]

### Example

```javascript
WearDataApi.deleteDataItems("wear://*/item_path", WearDataApi.FILTER_PREFIX, function(result) {
    console.log(result)
});
// outputs:
{ "NumDeleted": 1 }
```

## WearDataApi.addListener

```javascript
addListener(handler);
```

### Description

Registers a listener to receive data item changed and deleted events.

### Parameters

- __handler__: A javascript callback that is invoked when there is a data event. The callback value is an array of data events.

### Example

```javascript
WearDataApi.addListener(function(events) {
    for (event in events) {
        console.log("event for : " + event.Uri);
        if (event.Type==WearDataApi.TYPE_CHANGED) {
            // handle change event
            console.log(event.Data); // data is available here
        }
        else if (event.Type==WearDataApi.TYPE_DELETED) {
            // handle delete event
            console.log(event.Data); // data is available for deleted items as well
        }
    }
});
```

# Receiving Data in Android Wear

### Data Sent from Cordova:

Here is some sample data sent from Cordova using this plugin:

```javascript
var data = {
    "id": 31337, 
    "values": [3,1,4,5,9], 
    "nested": { "am_i_nested": true } 
};
WearDataApi.putDataItem("/my_path/test", data, <handlers>...);
```

In this example, we add an WearableListenerService to an Android Wear app that will be created and invoked when a Data Item event URI matches the configured `host` ("*") and `pathPrefix` ("/my_path") values:

### Add to Wear App's AndroidManifest.xml

```xml
<manifest>
    <application
        <service android:name=".MyService">
            <intent-filter>
                <action android:name="com.google.android.gms.wearable.DATA_CHANGED"/>
                <data android:scheme="wear" android:host="*" android:pathPrefix="/my_path"/>
            </intent-filter>
        </service>
    </application>
</manifest>
```

### Receive Data in Wear App's WearableListenerService (Java):

```java
public class MyService extends WearableListenerService {
    public MyService() { super("MyService"); } // constructor

    @Override
    public void onDataChanged(DataEventBuffer dataEventBuffer) {
        for (DataEvent event : dataEventBuffer) {
            int type = event.getType(); // TYPE_CHANGED (1)
            DataItem item = event.getDataItem();
            DataMap data = DataMapItem.fromDataItem(item).getDataMap();
            int id = data.getInt("id"); // 31337
            ArrayList<Integer> values = data.getIntegerArrayList("values"); // [3,1,4,5,9]
            DataMap nested = data.getDataMap("nested");
            Boolean am_i_nested = nested.getBoolean("am_i_nested"); // true
        }
    }
}
```

### Send Data back to Cordova from Android Wear App (Java):

```java
GoogleApiClient client; // note: need a connected client first

void SendData() {
    // create base data map object
    PutDataMapRequest putDataMapRequest = PutDataMapRequest.create("/put_from_wear/1");
    DataMap dataMap = putDataMapRequest.getDataMap();

    // add data using DataMap object model
    dataMap.putBoolean("foobar", true);
    dataMap.putStringArray("keys", new String[] {"a", "b", "c"});
    DataMap d2 = new DataMap();
    d2.putString("mach", "facula");
    dataMap.putDataMap("bomb_baby", d2); // translated to nested Json object

    // send data via Android Wear DataApi
    Wearable.DataApi.putDataItem(client, putDataMapRequest.asPutDataRequest());
}
```

### Data will be received in Cordova:

```javascript
WearDataApi.addListener(function(events) { console.log(events) }); // register listener

// outputs the object received from the callback:
[
    {
        "Data": {
            "foobar": true,
            "keys": ["a", "b", "c"],
            "bomb_baby": {
                "mach": "facula"
            }
        },
        "Type": 1,
        "Uri": "wear://<wear_node_id>/put_from_wear/1"
    }
]
```

## License

Copyright (c) 2017 Marcus Lum

[Apache 2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

Commit message:

bump to 1.0.1, update README w/ limitations

README.md, after:

# Android Wear DataApi for Cordova

This plugin enables data synchronization between an Android Phone and an Android wear device via the [Android Wear DataApi](https://developers.google.com/android/reference/com/google/android/gms/wearable/DataApi). With this API, you can:

* Put data into the Data Layer
* Query data from the Data Layer
* Delete data from the Data Layer
* Register for Data Layer change event callbacks

*Note: Because Cordova does not run on Android Wear as of 3/12/2017, the Android Wear application must be written natively (or with Xamarin).*

## Platform

* Android

## DataApi Essentials

Each data item is identified by a URI, accessible with getUri(), that indicates the item's creator and path. Fully specified URIs follow the following format:

    wear://<node_id>/<path>

There is a lower-level API which works with sending raw bytes which is not implemented. The implementation of this plugin translates Javascript objects into [`DataMap`](https://developers.google.com/android/reference/com/google/android/gms/wearable/DataMap) objects in Android for ease of use.

Read more at the documentation here: [https://developer.android.com/training/wearables/data-layer/data-items.html](https://developer.android.com/training/wearables/data-layer/data-items.html)

# Installing

### Cordova

    $ cordova plugin add cordova-androidwear-dataapi --variable DATAAPI_PATHPREFIX="/"

The `DATAAPI_PATHPREFIX` is optional and defaults to "/". Keep in mind that if you do not add a filter prefix that differentiates the phone from the Wear device, all data events put to the Android Wear network by your application will be captured by `addListener`, including data items put by the Cordova phone app.

# API

## Methods

- [WearDataApi.putDataItem](#weardataapiputdataitem)
- [WearDataApi.getDataItems](#weardataapigetdataitems)
- [WearDataApi.deleteDataItems](#weardataapideletedataitems)
- [WearDataApi.addListener](#weardataapiaddlistener)

## WearDataApi.putDataItem

    WearDataApi.putDataItem(path, data, success, failure);

### Description

Adds a DataItem to the Android Wear network. The updated item is synchronized across all devices.

*Note: calling this method multiple times with the same data will cause change events only once.*

### Parameters

- __path__: The path of the data item
- __data__: A javascript object. The object properties that can be translated from the object are:
    - Strings
    - Numbers
    - Boolean values
    - Nested javascript objects (following the above rules)
    - Arrays:
        - containing **only integers**, or
        - containing **only strings**, or
        - containing **only javascript objects** (following the above rules)
- __success__: Success callback function that is invoked when the put is complete.
- __failure__: Error callback function, invoked when error occurs. [optional]

### Example

```javascript
var data = { "a": 123, "b": { "c": ["d"] } }
WearDataApi.putDataItem("/item_path/item123", data, function() {
    // success callback
},
function(err) {
    // error callback
})
```

## WearDataApi.getDataItems

```javascript
getDataItems(uri, filterType, success, error)
```

### Description

Retrieves all data items matching the provided URI, from the Android Wear network.

### Parameters

- __uri__: The URI must contain a path. If `uri` is fully specified, at most one data item will be returned. If `uri` contains a wildcard host, multiple data items may be returned, since different nodes may create data items with the same path. See DataApi for details of the URI format.
- __filterType__: Either `WearDataItem.FILTER_LITERAL` (0) or `WearDataApi.FILTER_PREFIX` (1). The filterType parameter changes the interpretation of `uri`. For example, if `uri` represents a path prefix, all items matching that prefix will be returned.
- __success__: Success callback function that is invoked when the get is complete, with the data returned.
- __failure__: Error callback function, invoked when error occurs. [optional]

### Example

```javascript
WearDataApi.getDataItems("wear://*/item_path", WearDataApi.FILTER_PREFIX, function(data) {
    console.log(data);
})
// outputs:
[
    { 
        "Uri": "wear://abcd1234/item_path/item123",
        "Data": { "a": 123, "b": { "c": ["d"] } }
    }  
]
```

## WearDataApi.deleteDataItems

```javascript
deleteDataItems(uri, filterType, success, error)
```

### Description

Removes all specified data items from the Android Wear network.

### Parameters

- __uri__: If uri is fully specified, this method will delete at most one data item. If uri contains a wildcard host, multiple data items may be deleted, since different nodes may create data items with the same path
- __filterType__: Either `WearDataItem.FILTER_LITERAL` (0) or `WearDataApi.FILTER_PREFIX` (1). The filterType parameter changes the interpretation of `uri`. For example, if `uri` represents a path prefix, all items matching that prefix will be returned.
- __success__: Success callback function that is invoked when the delete is complete, with the number of items deleted.
- __failure__: Error callback function, invoked when error occurs. [optional]

### Example

```javascript
WearDataApi.deleteDataItems("wear://*/item_path", WearDataApi.FILTER_PREFIX, function(result) {
    console.log(result)
});
// outputs:
{ "NumDeleted": 1 }
```

## WearDataApi.addListener

```javascript
addListener(handler);
```

### Description

Registers a listener to receive data item changed and deleted events.

### Parameters

- __handler__: A javascript callback that is invoked when there is a data event. The callback value is an array of data events.

### Example

```javascript
WearDataApi.addListener(function(events) {
    for (event in events) {
        console.log("event for : " + event.Uri);
        if (event.Type==WearDataApi.TYPE_CHANGED) {
            // handle change event
            console.log(event.Data); // data is available here
        }
        else if (event.Type==WearDataApi.TYPE_DELETED) {
            // handle delete event
            console.log(event.Data); // data is available for deleted items as well
        }
    }
});
```

# Receiving Data in Android Wear

### Data Sent from Cordova:

Here is some sample data sent from Cordova using this plugin:

```javascript
var data = {
    "id": 31337, 
    "values": [3,1,4,5,9], 
    "nested": { "am_i_nested": true } 
};
WearDataApi.putDataItem("/my_path/test", data, <handlers>...);
```

In this example, we add an WearableListenerService to an Android Wear app that will be created and invoked when a Data Item event URI matches the configured `host` ("*") and `pathPrefix` ("/my_path") values:

### Add to Wear App's AndroidManifest.xml

```xml
<manifest>
    <application
        <service android:name=".MyService">
            <intent-filter>
                <action android:name="com.google.android.gms.wearable.DATA_CHANGED"/>
                <data android:scheme="wear" android:host="*" android:pathPrefix="/my_path"/>
            </intent-filter>
        </service>
    </application>
</manifest>
```

### Receive Data in Wear App's WearableListenerService (Java):

```java
public class MyService extends WearableListenerService {
    public MyService() { super("MyService"); } // constructor

    @Override
    public void onDataChanged(DataEventBuffer dataEventBuffer) {
        for (DataEvent event : dataEventBuffer) {
            int type = event.getType(); // TYPE_CHANGED (1)
            DataItem item = event.getDataItem();
            DataMap data = DataMapItem.fromDataItem(item).getDataMap();
            int id = data.getInt("id"); // 31337
            ArrayList<Integer> values = data.getIntegerArrayList("values"); // [3,1,4,5,9]
            DataMap nested = data.getDataMap("nested");
            Boolean am_i_nested = nested.getBoolean("am_i_nested"); // true
        }
    }
}
```

### Send Data back to Cordova from Android Wear App (Java):

```java
GoogleApiClient client; // note: need a connected client first

void SendData() {
    // create base data map object
    PutDataMapRequest putDataMapRequest = PutDataMapRequest.create("/put_from_wear/1");
    DataMap dataMap = putDataMapRequest.getDataMap();

    // add data using DataMap object model
    dataMap.putBoolean("foobar", true);
    dataMap.putStringArray("keys", new String[] {"a", "b", "c"});
    DataMap d2 = new DataMap();
    d2.putString("mach", "facula");
    dataMap.putDataMap("bomb_baby", d2); // translated to nested Json object

    // send data via Android Wear DataApi
    Wearable.DataApi.putDataItem(client, putDataMapRequest.asPutDataRequest());
}
```

### Data will be received in Cordova:

```javascript
WearDataApi.addListener(function(events) { console.log(events) }); // register listener

// outputs the object received from the callback:
[
    {
        "Data": {
            "foobar": true,
            "keys": ["a", "b", "c"],
            "bomb_baby": {
                "mach": "facula"
            }
        },
        "Type": 1,
        "Uri": "wear://<wear_node_id>/put_from_wear/1"
    }
]
```

# Limitations

## Data Change Events when the Cordova Activity has been killed

When the Cordova Activity is killed (either by the user manually or by the system automatically due to resource conservation), the CordovaWebView is destroyed and the Javascript code is not runnable. DataApi events received while the activity is killed are not received by callbacks registered with `WearDataApi.addListener`.

TODO in the future would be to have the plugin do a native `sendBroadcast(intent)` when data events are received and have apps wanting to handle data events while the Cordova Activity is killed add a native `BroadcastReceiver` to the app. This technique is implemented by (and described by) the __cordova-plugin-geofence__ plugin here: [https://github.com/cowbell/cordova-plugin-geofence#listening-for-geofence-transitions-in-native-code](https://github.com/cowbell/cordova-plugin-geofence#listening-for-geofence-transitions-in-native-code)

# License

Copyright (c) 2017 Marcus Lum

[Apache 2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
